The Joe Rogan experience.
If you look at that last card that we did,
I think I had three of the biggest fights of any UFC card.
I did the Cubs Watson fight.
It was.
Holy. I get about a 20 minute break.
And then I do Kevin Holland versus Ray woo.
And then I finished my night with Tony Ferguson and Oliver.
That was crazy too. So it's like three crazy, crazy fight. So yeah, God,
that's a great card that Kevin Holland Kao was bananas.
I think I've done. And you know,
we don't have anything to do with the assignments to athletic commission gives
us our fights. I've done Kevin HoloLens, like last four fights. And you know,
I tell folks, I got the greatest seat in the world,
sitting there in the octagon with these, you know,
men and women who go in there and do that stuff.
But I fortunately have with great mentors and guidance and
opportunities from the UFC and somebody organizations have gotten some of the
biggest and best fights in the world.
Very high on Kevin Holland. He's something special. He's good.
He's got crazy power and weird,
like to knock out jock right off your back with a punch, like.
And we sit there and you know,
you look at both fighters and see what's happening. And I go,
we went down to the ground and you have to know your fighters to know where
their expertise is going to happen.
Well, he's a Travis looter trained jujitsu practitioner, Travis looter,
one of the best American jujitsu practitioners, really ever. He Travis looter,
you know, it's, uh, it's, it comes from a different era. But back in his day,
like the guys that I know that trained with him were like, holy.
Because he could, and it's great to see them, you know, they're in the corner,
you get some time to chat with these guys and hear all the stories,
but he's out.
Of Dallas, right? Yeah.
When I fight happened with, yeah, when I fight happened,
he's on his back and he throws that first punch and I go, okay,
this is going to be a transition. I look at Jack Ray. And you know,
if you go back and watch the fight,
he's actually rocked when that first happened, we'll step a little bit closer.
And by the time he throws the next three punches and I'm stepping in to try and
stop it, you know, Shakara is out out and they'll,
they'll concentrate on the fighter that wins. But you know, one,
you don't want a fighter to come back conscious and take you down to start to do
something that does happen. And if there's a language barrier, you know,
so I'm sitting there telling Jack Ray the fights over the fights over, you know,
I say, stop, stop, stop. So there's no misunderstanding about what's going on.
And I'm holding the jock Ray and holding the fence. Cause he started to,
you know, come back coherent again.
And I want him to understand that he's been knocked out and you know, he's like,
no, no, I'm good. I'm good. I'm going, nah, man, you got knocked out.
You'd been out for, you know, a minute or two. Isn't that crazy?
Everybody's mentally starts to come back.
I think they're fine. Like people think that fighters,
like they're trying to cheat or something like that.
Like you don't understand what it's like and you get knocked out,
especially fighters. When they come back, they think they're in the fight.
Exactly.
Like they'll try to take a referee down there holding on the pants legs. Yep.
They don't even think that it's a pants leg. And then eventually they go,
why is this? These are black pants.
What happened? Yeah. What happened? They always say what happened or they,
they get the bright light of the, you know,
the doctor is shining the flashlight in her eyes hazard. What happened?
One thing we tried to transition doing, you know,
I've had some fighters really hurt really bad.
We normally keep everybody out at octagon.
But one thing we're doing is we're allowing a coach to come in with the doctor,
with the inspectors, with myself and give them a familiar voice. You know,
you get knocked out,
you come back and here's mark telling you now the fights over,
you may not recognize, but if a coach is there in the corner saying, Hey,
such and such, you got knocked out, calm down as fondness as coach huts as such,
I'm here. We're finding that's common, a fighter down just a little bit,
obviously medical protocols and safety. We got to do all that.
But I like doing that. I like asking one of the coaches to come in,
stand off to my side and kind of give them a familiar voice.
When Olivera had Tony Ferguson in that arm bar and he had his arm completely
hyperextended and it looked like his arm was breaking. Like,
what was your thought there?
Cause some guys have stopped fights when a guy has a fully locked out bar
and it's very controversial.
Like some people think you should just let it keep going.
Other people think like that.
One of the best examples was herb Dean with Tim Sylvia vs. Frank Mir.
I went through my mind place and see what a lot of people didn't understand at
first is herb is looking directly at his arm is.
Season two, heard it.
He heard the crack. Yeah. Now he caught a lot of flack for that.
Did he only do for a couple seconds? Once I got in the octagon and explained it,
I explained it to the audience because people were booing like crazy.
Cause the fight was tops. Tim's hill. He's like, what the? What the? Meanwhile,
his arm was.
Going.
Too. Well, his arm was gone. Yeah. I mean it was, and then I explained it on TV.
And then when I got into the octagon and I said,
I want you to look at something, watch this, watch this. And then you hear it.
But he go, woo.
When you see his forearm bend in half and then everybody's like, oh,
so that level.
With the choke, I'll tell guys in rural meeting in the back,
I'm not going to stop. Unless you go out,
you could have someone in a fully compromised position, you know,
who has a Dick? He has a fight. Yes. You know, he was fully compromised,
but how good could it be? How, how long can he hold it?
Can he turn his chin to the side and get out?
I go out, you've got to let them go out. So we tell Kevin Lee has a nasty, rude,
naked choke. And he had KSL fully.
David in that position. You've got to let them go. So I tell guys in my,
and we learn as we progress watching fights, you know, we talk daily,
weekly about stuff that we got to do.
So I'll tell him in the back in Rosemead for a choke at this level,
I'm not going to stop it. Unless spider goes out.
If it's any kind of other submission,
I got to see a dislocation separation or it has to break.
Or if you scream and as a difference between a scream and a, you know,
a garage to get out of something, if you scream,
it's a verbal submission and we're going to stop. That's a weird one.
Now Tony verbal submission thing is weird.
Man. That.
Was, you could saw his leg off with a rusty act.
That was beyond human. When,
when Charles transitioned from across the chest to under the underarm,
Tony grunted and he bared through it. Yeah.
Yeah. Hyperextension. I don't know what happens to is.
I don't see my foot there. Look how close I am. So I'm doing two things. One,
I'm looking for a dislocation separation of break,
but I'm also listening to see if it's going to be crap, a verbal,
they know the cracking arm or verbal submission. He did not. He, he man,
he battled through that and there's we gotta be conscious of the time.
So the 10, second clapper had already gone off.
So I'm counting down in my head and the goal is to right when that horn goes
off, you'll see when we stop a submission from that,
we go right to the pressure point,
push back the opposite way and take off the pivot point.
And it's under armed to stop it because some guys are going to try to hold it
for an extra second out. The bill goes off, right. Is that stops?
I'm pushing on it and stopping it also verbally telling the guy to stop.
Cause you don't want any extra damage after the bail.
[Inaudible] yes. Yeah. Yeah.
So we saw now think he did he fight Jake shields or somebody like that?
What's that loud noise. All of a sudden that thing.
Oh great.
Um, I think when he fought Jake shields, you know,
there was some extracurricular.
With, um, uh, Kamora and that was in, uh, the PFL right? Yeah.
He held on to a Kamora tap Jake, but then held it long.
And then afterwards there was a brawl inside the octagon. But.
Yeah, and I think I'd refereed the fight right before that. And you know,
it's our responsibility as a referee to know your fighter, you gotta, you know,
we do what I do is I look at the entire card and I'll go back and try to look at
their fight.
So whatever I get assigned and I don't know what I get assigned until I get
there to know if anyone has any tendencies, you know,
where they grade on the standup or they grade on the ground that they have a
tendency to file.
Cause we got some guys that like to fight with their fingers extended a lot.
And I put that into my rules meeting of, you know, washed fingers,
just what it's going to be fingers straight to the sky or make a fist.
Or if someone has a propensity to fall a lot,
that may be something that I'm going to watch out for.
Okay. Now when you see something like that, if you saw the arm break,
you would have.
Stopped it. I would have stopped. Did you have to look.
How bad it looks? Yeah. It's so crazy.
How hyperextended that thing is. Yeah.
And you got some folks that are super double it and they will tell you ahead of
time. Hey, I'm a flexibility. I'm double jointed. Do you.
Remember a wholesaler? Gracie versus Sakuraba.
It was that with the.
He got him into Kamora as well.
And he got his arm like way wrapped up behind his back,
but Heuler has crazy joint flexibility. Like it's really nuts. Like,
and he was like, I'm fine. I'm fine.
And they stopped the fight and he was furious because his arm was like soccer,
robos, a catch wrestling guy, you know? So he,
he's got a lot of those like old school,
double wrist lock techniques that are really brutal and then joints.
And he's got his arm like deep up high on his back and he's twisting it.
But Whaler was like, I'm fine. I'm not tapping. And he won't tap,
which is crazy.
And it depends on the level. So like,
can we do tough enough to amateur feistier.
Oh yeah, yeah. If he keeps going, you can see that's only the beginning of it.
Um, it, it got a lot worse if you say Heuler versus
no, that is that's the beginning of it.
Yeah. Like at the amateur level, somebody could be in a choking.
If his compromised.
We may stop the fight or if they get stuck in arm bar or something,
don't demonstrate. Right. Right. In the amateurs. Yeah.
So this is Hoy's boys.
That's Hoy's this is a different guy. Boiler is much smaller.
That's the problem with soccer, Raba soccer.
Rob was a big guy and [inaudible] is fairly small boilers. Like, I mean,
he might be like one 60,
maybe catch new episodes of the Joe Rogan experience for free.
Only on Spotify.
Watch back catalog J R E videos on Spotify,
including clips easily seamlessly switch between video
and audio experience on Spotify.
You can listen to the JRE in the background while using other apps and can
download episodes to save on data costs. All for free.
Spotify is absolutely free.
You don't have to have a premium account to watch new JRE episodes.
You just need to search for the JRE on your Spotify app.
Go to Spotify now to get this full episode of the Joe Rogan expenses.